Asymmetric cryptography (public key cryptography)

Asymmetric cryptography, also known as public-key cryptography, is a process that uses a pair of related keys
-- one public key and one private key -- to encrypt and decrypt a message and protect it from unauthorized access or use.
A public key is a cryptographic key that can be used by any person to encrypt a message so that it can only be deciphered by
the intended recipient with their private key. A private key -- also known as a secret key -- is shared only with key's initiator.

When someone wants to send an encrypted message, they can pull the intended recipient's public key from a public directory
and use it to encrypt the message before sending it. The recipient of the message can then decrypt the message using their
related private key. On the other hand, if the sender encrypts the message using their private key, then the message can be decrypted 
only using that sender's public key, thus authenticating the sender. These encryption and decryption processes happen automatically;
users do not need to physically lock and unlock the message.

Many protocols rely on asymmetric cryptography, including the transport layer security (TLS) and secure sockets layer (SSL) protocols,
which make HTTPS possible. The encryption process is also used in software programs -- such as browsers -- that need to establish a
secure connection over an insecure network like the Internet or need to validate a digital signature.

Increased data security is the primary benefit of asymmetric cryptography. It is the most secure encryption process because users
are never required to reveal or share their private keys, thus decreasing the chances of a cybercriminal discovering a user's private key during transmission.

How asymmetric cryptography works:

Asymmetric encryption uses a mathematically related pair of keys for encryption and decryption: a public key and a private key.
If the public key is used for encryption, then the related private key is used for decryption; if the private key is used for encryption,
then the related public key is used for decryption.

The two participants in the asymmetric encryption workflow are the sender and the receiver; each has its own pair of public and private keys.
First, the sender obtains the receiver's public key. Next, the plaintext -- or ordinary, readable text -- is encrypted by the sender using the
receiver's public key; this creates ciphertext. The ciphertext is then sent to the receiver, who decrypts the ciphertext with their private key
and returns it to legible plaintext.
